documentation/Architecture/translations.md, before:

# Translations

Internationalization is implemented with the [React Intl](https://github.com/yahoo/react-intl)
library.

## Language JSON

The JSON files are structured hierarchically and found in `./src/languages/`.

```json
{
  "common": {
    "item1": {
      "subItem1": "Item 1",
      "subItem2": "Item 2",
    },
    "item2": {
      "subItem1": "Item - 1"
    }
  }
}
```

The JSON files are later flatten at runtime with dot separated key names.
The dot separated key name is the ID of the language translation message.

```json
{
  "common.item1.subItem1": "Item 1",
  "common.item1.subItem2": "Item 2",
  "common.item2.subItem1": "Item - 1",
}
```

- Translation items should be grouped under:
  - `common` for shared translations
  - `components.[lowerCamelCasedComponentName]` for component specific translations
  - `containers.[lowerCamelCasedContainerName]` for container specific translations
- Use [React Intl](https://formatjs.io/docs/react-intl/api) to format dates, times, and numbers for different regions

## Usage with Hooks

```js
import React from 'react';
import { useIntl } from 'react-intl';

const Component = () => {
  const intl = useIntl();

  return (
    <span>{intl.formatMessage({ id: 'components.Component.message' })}<span/>
  );
};

export default Component;
```

## Storybook

**TODO: Update**

If the component uses the API method (with injectIntl), then the Story Source in Storybook for the
component will render `<InjectIntl(Component) />` instead of `<Component />`. Calling the `fixInfo`
function in `stories.jsx` will fix this issue.

```js
...
import { storiesForComponent, fixInfo } from '../../../.storybook/utils';
...
fixInfo(Component);
...
storiesForComponent('Components|Component', module, ReadMe)
...
```

## Tests

**TODO: Update**

The `ShallowWrapper` object has been updated with a `shallowWithIntl` method, which is needed to
render `FormattedMessage` components in testing. `shallowWithIntl` accepts a object with the
translation IDs as the keys and the translation text as the values. If no object is provided, the
rendered translation cannot be guaranteed.

```js
...
const translationWrapper = wrapper.find('FormattedMessage').shallowWithIntl();
// translationWrapper.html() = '<span class="component">any translation</span>'
expect(translationWrapper.hasClass('component')).toBe(true);
...
```

```js
...
const messages = { 'component.translation': 'specific translation' };
const translationWrapper = wrapper.find('FormattedMessage').shallowWithIntl(messages);
// translationWrapper.html() = '<span class="component">specific translation</span>'
expect(translationWrapper.hasClass('component')).toBe(true);
expect(translationWrapper.text()).toContain('specific translation');
...
```

If the component uses the API method (with injectIntl), then it will need to be rendered with the
`shallowWithIntl` function from test utilities.

```js
import { shallowWithIntl } from '../../tests/utilities';
...
wrapper = shallowWithIntl(<Component />);
...
```

Commit message:

feat(translations): groups all api translations under new api group
Issues Affected: 2997

documentation/Architecture/translations.md, after:

# Translations

Internationalization is implemented with the [React Intl](https://github.com/yahoo/react-intl)
library.

## Language JSON

The JSON files are structured hierarchically and found in `./src/languages/`.

```json
{
  "common": {
    "item1": {
      "subItem1": "Item 1",
      "subItem2": "Item 2",
    },
    "item2": {
      "subItem1": "Item - 1"
    }
  }
}
```

The JSON files are later flatten at runtime with dot separated key names.
The dot separated key name is the ID of the language translation message.

```json
{
  "common.item1.subItem1": "Item 1",
  "common.item1.subItem2": "Item 2",
  "common.item2.subItem1": "Item - 1",
}
```

- Translation items should be grouped under:
  - `common` for shared translations
  - `components.[lowerCamelCasedComponentName]` for component specific translations
  - `containers.[lowerCamelCasedContainerName]` for container specific translations
- Use [React Intl](https://formatjs.io/docs/react-intl/api) to format dates, times, and numbers for different regions

## API Translations

Translations that come from the backend API can be pulled in with `useAPI` and are formatted with `getI18NMessages()`.

Any translations that come from the backend will be prefaced with `api`.

Example:

`api.searchPanel.keywords.fish`

## Usage with Hooks

```js
import React from 'react';
import { useIntl } from 'react-intl';

const Component = () => {
  const intl = useIntl();

  return (
    <span>{intl.formatMessage({ id: 'components.Component.message' })}<span/>
  );
};

export default Component;
```

## Storybook

**TODO: Update**

If the component uses the API method (with injectIntl), then the Story Source in Storybook for the
component will render `<InjectIntl(Component) />` instead of `<Component />`. Calling the `fixInfo`
function in `stories.jsx` will fix this issue.

```js
...
import { storiesForComponent, fixInfo } from '../../../.storybook/utils';
...
fixInfo(Component);
...
storiesForComponent('Components|Component', module, ReadMe)
...
```

## Tests

**TODO: Update**

The `ShallowWrapper` object has been updated with a `shallowWithIntl` method, which is needed to
render `FormattedMessage` components in testing. `shallowWithIntl` accepts a object with the
translation IDs as the keys and the translation text as the values. If no object is provided, the
rendered translation cannot be guaranteed.

```js
...
const translationWrapper = wrapper.find('FormattedMessage').shallowWithIntl();
// translationWrapper.html() = '<span class="component">any translation</span>'
expect(translationWrapper.hasClass('component')).toBe(true);
...
```

```js
...
const messages = { 'component.translation': 'specific translation' };
const translationWrapper = wrapper.find('FormattedMessage').shallowWithIntl(messages);
// translationWrapper.html() = '<span class="component">specific translation</span>'
expect(translationWrapper.hasClass('component')).toBe(true);
expect(translationWrapper.text()).toContain('specific translation');
...
```

If the component uses the API method (with injectIntl), then it will need to be rendered with the
`shallowWithIntl` function from test utilities.

```js
import { shallowWithIntl } from '../../tests/utilities';
...
wrapper = shallowWithIntl(<Component />);
...
```
